<h1>Supply Chain Optimization</h1>
<h2>Problem Statement</h2>
<h3>In the retail industry, a company procures products from multiple suppliers to stock its inventory. The company aims to streamline its supply chain management process to ensure effective order fulfillment, minimize instances of stockouts, and lower carrying costs. Leveraging data from the database, which includes supplier details, product information, orders, and shipments, presents an opportunity to optimize supply chain operations while maintaining strategic objectives.</h3>

<h3>Objectives:</h3>
<p>● Analyze supplier performance and identify opportunities for collaboration.</br>
● Optimize inventory levels to reduce stockouts and improve customer satisfaction.</br>
● Streamline order fulfillment processes to enhance efficiency and reduce costs.</br>
● Identify key trends and patterns in order and shipment data for strategic decision-making.</p>

<h3>Tables</h3>
<p>1) Suppliers</p>
<p>2) Products</p>
<p>3) Orders</p>
<p>4) Shipments</p>

<h3>SQL Analysis:</h3>
<p>1. Select all records from the Suppliers table.</br>
2. Select product name and unit price from the Products table</br>
3. Select order IDs and order dates from the Orders table</br>
4. Select shipment IDs and shipment dates from the Shipments table</br>
5. Count the total number of products in stock</br>
6. Calculate the average unit price of products</br>
7. Find the maximum quantity ordered</br>
8. List suppliers along with their contact persons</br>
9. List products with their descriptions</br>
10. Display shipment details including the tracking number</br>
11. List orders along with the associated supplier information</br>
12. Display products that have a unit price greater than $15</br>
13. Count the number of orders per supplier</br>
14. Calculate the total quantity ordered for each product</br>
15. List shipments along with the associated order information</br>
16. Find suppliers with more than 2 contacts</br>
17. Calculate the average quantity ordered per order</br>
18. List products along with the total number of orders they are associated with.</br>
19. Display orders that are in progress (order_status = 'In Progress')</br>
20. Find the earliest and latest order dates</br>
21. Calculate the total revenue generated from orders</br>
22. List suppliers along with the total quantity ordered from them</br>
23. Find products with the highest unit price</br>
24. List orders along with the associated supplier and product information</br>
25. Display the top 3 products with the highest quantity ordered</br>
26. Find the percentage of completed orders out of total orders</br>
27. Calculate the total number of shipments per shipping company</br>
28. List suppliers who have not yet made any orders</br>
29. Display orders along with the corresponding shipment details, if available.</br>
30. Find the top 5 suppliers with the highest total quantity ordered.</br>
31. Find the total revenue generated by each supplier</br>
32. Calculate the average delivery time for each shipping company.</br>
33. Identify products that have never been ordered</br>
34. Find the top 3 shipping companies with the most shipments</br>
35. Calculate the percentage of orders that were completed for each supplier.</br>
36. Identify products with low inventory levels (less than 50 in stock) that need restocking.</br>
37. Find the top 5 suppliers with the highest total revenue.</br>
38. Calculate the total number of orders made each month.</br>
39. Identify suppliers with declining order trends over the past three months.</br>
40. Calculate the average shipment duration for each supplier.</br>
41. Identify Seasonal Demand Patterns.</br>
42. Product Popularity Trends.</br>
43. Correlation between Order Frequency, Product Categories, and Customer Demographics.</br>
44. Forecast Future Demand.</br>
</p>
